Add Curated Module v2 guide to /run-on-lido (#881)
lidofinance/docs: run-on-lido/cm-v2/penalties.md

---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# ⚡ Penalties

CMv2 uses a bond-based penalty system. When your validators underperform or violate protocol rules, the protocol deducts from your bond. Repeated or severe violations can reduce your stake allocation or result in removal from the module.

## Penalty types

### General delayed penalty

Reported manually by the CMC in case of EL stealing (MEV, priority fees), underperformance, or in other cases of protocol rule violations that are not reported automatically.

> A **General delayed penalty** consists of the charge to cover for the violation, and a fixed additional fine charged at withdrawal. The fixed fine is 0.1 ETH for the PO type and 0.05 ETH for all the others.

Reviewer: Here we say the fixed fine is "charged at withdrawal", but line 37 says "the penalty amount plus a fixed fee is immediately locked in Accounting.sol" and the bond doc (`bond-and-key-management.md:111`) agrees. A reader might confuse whether the fine is locked up-front or only deducted at exit. Pick one and align all three places.

Once the Curated Module Committee (CMC) reports the violation, the amount required to compensate for it, together with the additional fixed fine, is locked from the sub-NO's bond. From there 3 outcomes are possible:

- The Node Operator compensates the penalty, and the locked bond is released.
- The Node Operator does NOT compensate, and the CMC initiates an EasyTrack motion to burn the locked bond.
- If neither side acts, the Node Operator will be able to unlock the bond after 60 days.

### Late exit penalty

> Applied automatically when a validator is not exited within the allowed time after an exit request. The allowed exit delay is 4 frames for all types according to the [Validator Exits Standard NO Protocol](https://github.com/lidofinance/documents-and-policies/blob/main/Lido%20on%20Ethereum%20Standard%20Node%20Operator%20Protocol%20-%20Validator%20Exits.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applied automatically when a validator is not exited within the allowed time after an exit request. The allowed exit delay is 4 days (i.e., 96 hours) for all types according to the [Validator Exits Standard NO Protocol](https://github.com/lidofinance/documents-and-policies/blob/main/Lido%20on%20Ethereum%20Standard%20Node%20Operator%20Protocol%20-%20Validator%20Exits.md).
```

🤔

The **late exit penalty** charged at withdrawal for a 2,048 ETH validator is 0.64 ETH for PO and 0.32 ETH for all other types. This charge can be reduced linearly if the validator's balance is below 2,048.

### Slashing penalty

Applied manually by the CMC when one of your validators is slashed on the consensus layer. The CMC proposes the bond deduction via an EasyTrack motion after the slashing is finalized and losses can be calculated.

## How penalties are applied

Most penalties are applied at the time of validator withdrawal. This means your bond is not reduced the moment a penalty is recorded. The deduction happens when the validator exits.

The only exception is the General Delayed Penalty. Once reported, the penalty amount plus a fixed fee is immediately locked in `Accounting.sol`. If not compensated before the EasyTrack motion executes, the locked bond is burned permanently. If available bond is insufficient, the uncovered amount is recorded as bond debt.

> To unlock locked bond, go to [Bond & Rewards](/run-on-lido/cm-v2/bond-and-key-management) → Unlock Bond tab.

Reviewer: Link text says "Bond & Rewards" but href goes to `bond-and-key-management`. 

Either change the href to rewards or change the link text to "Bond & Key Management".

The **late exit penalty** charged at withdrawal for a 2,048 ETH validator is 0.64 ETH for PO and 0.32 ETH for all other types. This charge can be reduced linearly if the validator's balance is below 2,048.

### Slashing penalty

Applied manually by the CMC when one of your validators is slashed on the consensus layer. The CMC proposes the bond deduction via an EasyTrack motion after the slashing is finalized and losses can be calculated.

## How penalties are applied

Most penalties are applied at the time of validator withdrawal. This means your bond is not reduced the moment a penalty is recorded. The deduction happens when the validator exits.

The only exception is the General Delayed Penalty. Once reported and confirmed through an Easy Track motion, the penalty amount plus a fixed fee is immediately locked in `Accounting.sol`.

To unlock locked bond, go to [Bond & Rewards](./bond-and-key-management) → Unlock Bond tab.

If you do not compensate, an EasyTrack motion will be started to confirm the penalty. Once enacted, the locked funds are burned permanently. If available bond is insufficient to cover penalties, the uncovered amount is recorded as bond debt.

> ## Strike system

Reviewer 2: Add a note that unlike in CSM, in CM strikes are per-NO and not per key
